Workflows
=========

.. note:: this guide assumes that you are using a branch named *master*
   to maintain your new features or bug fixes that sit on top of the
   upstream code of some project (probably somewhat related to
   OpenStack).

   It is also assumed you are tracking releases, which is only one of
   the possible approaches to upstream tracking. Another approach would
   be tracking the master tip of a project. Of course even other
   strategies are possible.

Importing from upstream: using git-upstream
-------------------------------------------

See `installation instructions <installation.rst>`_ for details on
installing.

Initial import of an upstream project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To explain the usage of the git-upstream tool we are going to use a
real-world (but trivial) example, by performing some sample operations
on a project called ``jenkins-job-builder``.

In this example, we will create a local file based Git repository to
host our mirror of jenkins-job-builder. You could also use an existing
internal mirror, a Github fork, etc.

Start by setting the following environment variables:

.. code:: bash

    export REPO_NAME="jenkins-job-builder"
    export INTERNAL_REMOTE="file:///tmp/jenkins-job-builder.git"
    export UPSTREAM_REMOTE="https://github.com/openstack-infra/jenkins-job-builder.git"
    export FIRST_IMPORT_REF="0.5.0"

1) Create two empty repositories, one to serve as your working copy, and
   one to serve as the remote:

.. code:: bash

    git init --bare /tmp/${REPO_NAME}.git
    git init $REPO_NAME
    cd $REPO_NAME

2) Add your remotes

We will name it *origin* and *upstream* (for the sake of originality).

.. code:: bash

    git remote add origin $INTERNAL_REMOTE
    git remote add upstream $UPSTREAM_REMOTE

3) Fetch objects and refs from upstream remote

.. code:: bash

    git fetch --all

4) Push refs

Push refs defined upstream to the ``origin`` remote (*i.e.*, the
internal copy of the repository with local patches) using the string
``upstream`` as prefix, also pushing tags.

.. code:: bash

    git for-each-ref refs/remotes/upstream --format "%(refname:short)" | \
      sed -e 's:\(upstream/\(.*\)\)$:\1\:refs/heads/upstream/\2:' | \
      xargs git push --tags origin

You may want to repeat the last two commands before starting any new
feature development or a bug fix.

5) Check-out the first import commit (*e.g.*, tag or SHA1)

This will be the starting point for the internal development.

.. code:: bash

    git checkout -b import/$FIRST_IMPORT_REF $FIRST_IMPORT_REF

6) Create and switch to the master branch

.. code:: bash

    git checkout -b master

Now the tips of master, ``$FIRST_IMPORT_REF`` and
``import/$FIRST_IMPORT_REF`` should be pointing to the same commit.

Push local master branch to the remote origin, and make
``origin master`` the default when pushing commits.

.. code:: bash

    git push -u origin master

Writing your patches/features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now start to develop new feature or fix bugs on master, as usual. For
this example, we are going to change the .gitreview file in order to use
a local Gerrit server.

.. code:: bash

    sed -i 's/review\.openstack\.org/gerrit\.my\.org/' .gitreview

Don’t forget to commit and push (after this step, you may want to use
git review as usual)

.. code:: bash

    git commit -a -m "Set .gitreview content to use internal gating infra"
    git push

Our master (local and remote) tip should be now pointing to the last
commit.

Importing single patches from upstream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before implementing any feature or fixing any bug (in short, before
reinventing the wheel), check if someone has already implemented the
required code upstream.

If not, try not to develop code only for your specific needs, be
ambitious and try to develop something that could be useful for the
whole community. This way you can propose your patch upstream and save
yourself a lot of trouble which arise when there are many local changes
to carry on the tip of upstream releases.

In this example, we tried to use our code and we found out that the job
filtering isn’t working! Fortunately, Antoine Musso has already fixed
this bug, as we can see in the upstream repo.

.. code:: bash

    git show --summary 2eca0d11669b55d4ab02ba609a15aa242fd80d14
    commit 2eca0d11669b55d4ab02ba609a15aa242fd80d14
    Author: Antoine Musso <hashar@free.fr>
    Date:   Mon Jun 24 14:36:52 2013 +0200

        job filtering was not working properly

        When passing job names as arguments to 'update', the command is supposed
        to only retain this jobs.  Due to the job being a dict, the filter would
        never match and the none of the job would be updated.

        This has apparently always been broken since the feature got introduced
        in 85cf7a41.  Using job.['name'] fix it up.

        Change-Id: Icf4d5b0bb68777f7faff91ade04451d4c8501c6a
        Reviewed-on: https://review.openstack.org/34197
        Reviewed-by: Clark Boylan <clark.boylan@gmail.com>
        Approved: James E. Blair <corvus@inaugust.com>
        Reviewed-by: James E. Blair <corvus@inaugust.com>
        Tested-by: Jenkins

We are also interested in the following commit, which adds the
Environment File Plugin (finally!).

.. code:: bash

    git show --summary bf4524fae25c11640ef839aa422ac81bd926ca20
    commit bf4524fae25c11640ef839aa422ac81bd926ca20
    Author: zaro0508 <zaro0508@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Jul 1 11:21:24 2013 -0700

        add Environment File Plugin

        This commit adds the Environment File Plugin to JJB.
        https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Envfile+Plugin

        Change-Id: Id35a4d6ab25b0440303da02bb91007b459979243
        Reviewed-on: https://review.openstack.org/35170
        Reviewed-by: Arnaud Fabre <fabre.arnaud@gmail.com>
        Reviewed-by: James E. Blair <corvus@inaugust.com>
        Approved: Clark Boylan <clark.boylan@gmail.com>
        Reviewed-by: Clark Boylan <clark.boylan@gmail.com>
        Tested-by: Jenkins

Import those changes simply cherry-picking the two commits. Don’t forget
to push (review!) your changes.

.. code:: bash

    git cherry-pick 2eca0d11669b55d4ab02ba609a15aa242fd80d14
    git cherry-pick bf4524fae25c11640ef839aa422ac81bd926ca20
    git push

Importing new versions from upstream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Days passes and finally a new releases comes out.

.. code:: bash

    git fetch --all
    git for-each-ref refs/remotes/upstream --format "%(refname:short)" | \
      sed -e 's:\(upstream/\(.*\)\)$:\1\:refs/heads/upstream/\2:' | \
      xargs git push --tags origin

A lot of work has been done upstream and we need to rebase our master
onto the upstream master branch. In this process we must skip all the
commits we already cherry-picked some days ago, of course.

.. note:: the rebasing for this example is trivial but it is just to
   break the ice. Later in this guide we will address rebasing
   conflicts that can occur in the real world.

Create a new local branch with the new release tag as a starting point

.. code:: bash

    git branch import/0.6.0 0.6.0

Running git-upstream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally, it is time to run git-upstream! Before doing so make sure the
current branch is master

.. code:: bash

    git checkout master

.. code:: bash

    git-upstream import import/0.6.0
    Searching for previous import
    Starting import of upstream
    Successfully created import branch
    Attempting to linearise previous changes
    Successfully applied all locally carried changes
    Merging import to requested branch 'HEAD'
    Successfully finished import:
    target branch: 'HEAD'
    upstream branch: 'import/0.6.0'
    import branch: 'import/0.6.0'

***No errors***, we have been lucky!

What has just happened?

git-upstream has created a new branch named ``import/0.6.0-base`` which
tip is set to the commit pointed by the release tag ``0.6.0``, and has
rebased all changes present in our local master which were not already
present in the upstream new release (``import/0.6.0-base``) onto
``import/0.6.0-base``.

You can see that running the following command

.. code:: bash

    git log --graph --oneline --all --decorate

For this trivial example, the only commit not present in the upstream
release was about the customisation of the .gitreview file.

The default strategy git-upstream uses to find duplicate entries is the
comparison of Change-id entries in commit messages. Of course, it’s not
possible to compare directly the SHA1 for a commit because the
cherry-picking changes the information used for SHA1 calculation

.. note:: A git commit SHA1 is generated from the following information:

   - commit message
   - author signature (identity + timestamp)
   - committer signature (identity + timestamp)
   - tree SHA1 (hierarchy of directories and files within the commit)
   - list of the SHA1's of the parent commits

--------

The local branch ``import/0.6.0`` now contains our local changes rebased
onto the new upstream release. git-upstream has also merged this branch
with the local master branch (with "ours" strategy) to allow the normal
workflow (committing/merging to master for review).

.. note:: The "final" merging step is not mandatory. Of course you can
   keep a separate branch for each new import. On one hand this
   strategy allows a "cleaner" history as you will always have your
   local changes rebased on top of the exact copy of the upstream
   repository. On the other hand you will be creating a new branch
   every time you want to import upstream code. You can customise the
   name of the import branch using the
   ``--import-branch <branch name>`` option.

In principle, you could also replace your master branch (history) with
the new import branch created by git-upstream... Unfortunately there is
no way to do this without requiring ad-hoc intervention on cloned copies
of the repository (aka do-not-do-that(TM))

To disable automatic merging, just use the ``--no-merge`` flag

.. code:: bash

     git-upstream import --no-merge import/0.6.0

Handling conflicts
------------------

Of course in the real world things are much more complicated. From time
to time, during import, you will get rebasing conflict (for instance due
to changes from both local and upstream repository to the same piece of
code).

In case of rebasing conflict, git-upstream will stop allowing the user
to fix the conflict.

.. code:: bash

    git-upstream import import/0.5.0 --into master
    Searching for previous import
    Starting import of upstream
    Successfully created import branch
    Attempting to linearise previous changes
    ERROR   : Rebase failed, will need user intervention to resolve.
    error: could not apply f9b4fca... Fixup for openstack review
    When you have resolved this problem, run "git rebase --continue".
    If you prefer to skip this patch, run "git rebase --skip" instead.
    To check out the original branch and stop rebasing, run "git rebase --abort".
    Could not apply f9b4fca... Fixup for openstack review
    Import cancelled

Let's find out why git-upstream failed and let's try to continue the
rebasing manually.

.. code:: bash

    git status
    # HEAD detached from 8e6b9e9
    # You are currently rebasing branch 'import/0.5.0' on '8e6b9e9'.
    #   (fix conflicts and then run "git rebase --continue")
    #   (use "git rebase --skip" to skip this patch)
    #   (use "git rebase --abort" to check out the original branch)
    #
    # Unmerged paths:
    #   (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to mark resolution)
    #
    # both modified:      jenkins_jobs/cmd.py
    # both modified:      jenkins_jobs/modules/hipchat_notif.py
    #
    no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")

Depending on the type of conflict, you will could:

-  drop the local change

Issuing ``git rebase --skip``

-  edit conflicting code

Change conflicting code in order to accommodate local changes to the new
upstream code. You can later resume rebasing process issuing
``git rebase --continue``

Currently git-upstream can't resume the rebasing process. So, if needed,
the final "merging" steps have to be performed manually:

.. code:: bash

    git merge -s ours --no-commit <import-xxxx>

Replacing tree contents with those from the import branch

.. code:: bash

    git read-tree -u --reset <import-xxxx>

Committing merge commit

.. code:: bash

    git commit --no-edit

.. note:: git-upstream performs exactly those steps in order to replace
   the content of ``master`` branch with the import branch preserving the
   history.

Integration with Gerrit
-----------------------

You may want to use review with Gerrit the output of git-upstream, in
order to perform tests, gating, etc.

You have 2 options for doing that:

Re-review every new commit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this case we want to review every new commit (since the last import).
In order to do so, use the ``--no-merge`` flag of git-upstream import
command, and:

.. code:: bash

    git checkout import-xxxxx
    git push gerrit import-xxxxx-base:import-xxxxx
    git review import-xxxxx

If there is more than one new commit, git-review will ask to confirm the
submission of multiple changes.

Re-review only the final merge commit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This would be possible by using the ``--import-branch`` option of import
command and **pushing directly** (*i.e.*: bypassing Gerrit) the new
branch to the local repo. For instance:

.. code:: bash

    TIMESTAMP=$(date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%s")
    git upstream import --import-branch "import/import-$TIMESTAMP" upstream/master
    git push gerrit import/import-$TIMESTAMP:import/import-$TIMESTAMP

Then, create a valid ``Change-Id`` for the merge commit

.. code:: bash

    git commit --amend -C HEAD --no-edit

Locally, git-review will still complain about the presence of N+M
commits which would be committed BUT on the remote side all those
commits will be recognised as already present in one of the two branch
involved in the merge.

.. code:: bash

    git review -R -y master
